.\" Manpage for AI TCP Game Room
.TH ai-tcp-game-room 1 "December 2025" "1.0" "AI TCP Game Room"
.SH NAME
AI TCP Game Room \- Multiplayer text-based RPG server and client in Java
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B java Server
.br
.B java Client
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B AI-TCP-Game-Room
provides a text-based multiplayer game environment with three game types: 
Matrix, Prison Break, and Treasure Hunt.

Players can connect to a server running
.B Server
and interact using 
.B Client
This game features a chat system, voting-based actions, and an AI-generated continuous story using the OpenAI API.

.SH CLASSES
.TP
.B GameLobby
Manages up to three game rooms. Provides methods to get individual rooms.
.TP
.B gameRoom
Represents a game room: tracking players, broadcasting messages, handling votes, and controlling current game state.
.TP
.B GameController
Manages in-game logic, ongoing story narration, and player voting. Integrates with OpenAI API to generate a story.
.TP
.B ClientHandler
Handles a single client connection, including reading input, sending messages, and forwarding player actions to the room.
.TP
.B Server
Starts a server socket on port 8080 and listens for client connections.
.TP
.B Client
Connects to a server at localhost:8080, reads server messages, and sends user input.

.SH USAGE
Run the server:
.RS
$ java Server.java
.RE

Start a client:
.RS
$ java Client.java
.RE

Once connected, the client will prompt for a player name, then display a menu to select a game:
.RS
1. Matrix
2. Prison Break
3. Treasure Hunt
.RE

After joining a room, players can send chat messages or use commands:
.TP
.B /start
Starts the game (requires at least 1 player).
.TP
.B /vote [1-4]
Votes for a choice during the game. Only works when voting is active.
.TP
.B /leave
Closes a client's connection, leaving the room.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
The server REQUIRES the environment variable:
.TP
.B OPENAI_API_KEY
An OpenAI API key for calling a model to generate the AI-based story narration.

.SH EXAMPLES
Run server and connect three clients:
.RS
$ java Server.java
$ java Client.java
$ java Client.java
$ java Client.java
.RE

In the client, select a game:
.RS
Enter your choice (1-3): 1
.RE


A player starts the game using:
.RS
/start
.RE

During the game, players vote using:
.RS
/vote 2
.RE

.SH NOTES
.TP
 - There's a maximum of 5 players per room.
.TP
 - Only one game can run per room at a time.
.TP
 - The AI story continues until a "GAME OVER" condition is reached.

.SH AUTHORS
Jason Mansour, Jack Huckins, Chris Hu, Tiernan Hennessy, Omer Bashir
.SH COPYRIGHT
MIT License — free to use, modify, and distribute with attribution.
